---
author: harveynick
date: '2008-09-30 20:54:06'
layout: post
slug: flip-side
status: publish
title: Flip side
wordpress_id: '56'
categories:
- Listen
tags:
- Jonathan Coulton
- portal
- song
---

Two updates in one day shocker!  

The last one was a little downcast, though, and I felt a need to pass on something awesome by way of balance. Here it is:  

<!-- more -->

{% youtube http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sxNmeMklFk8 %}

Perhaps you're thinking "Huh? Who's this guy?" or "What's with the cake?". You've been missing out if that's the case. Jonathan Coulton (for that is the man's name) is a computer programmer turned unlikely rock star (You scoff? He has a song in Rock Band. I'm having trouble thinking of a better benchmark), who's become something of a geek standard thanks to the somewhat unlikely nature of his subject matter (one song has Pluto's moon singing its condolences regarding its loss of planet status).  

The song itself is the song over the closing credits of the game Portal, which is, quite frankly, an absolute fucking work of art. You probably know that I'm several different flavours of nerd and so JC's\* stuff appeals to me on a fairly base level , but I'm not a hardcore gamer. I have above average social skills, leave the house regularly and I prefer making love to playing computer games. There. I said it, and with a completely straight face. But that game is complete genius, through and through. I think Valve do amazing work in everything they do, and the fact they got JC* to write the song for the closing credits of one of their games makes me grin from ear to ear.  

Check out some more of his stuff, it might make you smile. If you do and it does, leave a comment telling me about it, because that would make me smile\**.  

Update: His website is here <http://www.jonathancoulton.com> And you can buy (and download for free) all his music there.  
That is all.  

\* No, not _that_ JC  
\** At the risk of me smiling so widely that the top of my head falls off.
